docs: relocate how to manage tx and create how to query tx state (#423)
nervosnetwork/docs.nervos.org: website/docs/how-tos/how-to-query-tx-state.mdx

---
id: how-to-query-tx-state
title: How to Query Transaction State
---

import Tooltip from "@components/Tooltip";

# How to Query Transaction State

> Upon broadcasting a transaction with `send_transaction` RPC, you will receive a `txhash`, which only indicates that the transaction has been sent to the network, NOT verified on-chain.
> 
> To query [transaction state](docs/tech-explanation/transaction.md#transaction-states), use `get_transaction`RPC. Remember, `send_transaction` operates asynchronously.
> 
> For details on CKB JSON-RPC `send_transaction` method, visit the list of [CKB RPC methods](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/ckb/tree/develop/rpc#method-send_transaction).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upon broadcasting a transaction using the `send_transaction` RPC, you will receive a transaction hash (`txhash`), which only indicates that the transaction has been sent to the network, NOT necessarily that it has been verified on-chain.

To query the [transaction state](docs/tech-explanation/transaction#transaction-states), use the `get_transaction` RPC. Remember, `send_transaction` operates asynchronously.

For more details on the CKB JSON-RPC `send_transaction` method, visit the list of [CKB RPC methods](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/ckb/tree/develop/rpc#method-send_transaction).
```

> ## Example: Query With JSON RPC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example: Query With JSON-RPC
```

### Request

<details>
    <summary>View details</summary>
    ```javascript
    {
    "id": 42,
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "get_transaction",
    "params": [
        "0xa0ef4eb5f4ceeb08a4c8524d84c5da95dce2f608e0ca2ec8091191b0f330c6e3"
    ]
    }
    ```
</details>

### Response

> <details>

Reviewer: Can you use the **Tablist** component to put request and response in two different tabs?
